---
title: "Boxes in boxes, Or what occupied my mind lately"
date: 2024-11-27
tags: [javascript, codewars, puzzles]
---

I sometimes solve puzzles on Codewars and LeetCode, and recently, I came across a kata called
["Boxes in boxes"](https://www.codewars.com/kata/63a2cf5bd11b1e0016c84b5a/javascript).


It’s not a particularly difficult problem, but I struggled with it.
My first issue with puzzles like this is that I’m not great at spatial reasoning.
Because of this, I couldn’t immediately understand the pattern for drawing the boxes.


The second problem was that even after I figured out the pattern, I couldn’t implement it.
In my mind, I thought I needed to redraw the boxes I had already calculated.
So, in my understanding I need to start by drawing one box and then try to add the lines for two boxes,
and repeat already drawn boxes.
But I just couldn’t wrap my head around it.


Eventually, I was forced to check other solutions
(after obsessing over it for two evenings without making any progress).
And guess what? I still didn’t get it.
I mean, I could look at the solution, understand the code, and see what it was doing,
but I just couldn’t grasp how it produced the final result.

In the end, I wrote my own solution based on the ideas from another one I found,
but I needed to debug it carefully to fully grasp the concept.


I’m leaving code with my comments here as a reminder of the solution and my understanding.

```js
function draw(n) {
    // all for one box, our start
    let res = [" _ ", "|_|"];

    for (let i = 1; i < n; i++) {
        res = [
            // top line - just add tops of boxes
            ' _' + res[0],
            // draw existing boxes without left border (top 1/2 part is repeat existing but partially)
            ...res.slice(1).map(str => '|  ' + str.slice(1)),
            // draw existing with left border and without bottom
            ...res.slice(1, -1).map(str => '| ' + str),
            // draw bottom
            '|_' + res[res.length-1],
        ]
    }

    return res.join('\n');
}
```

I hope it will never be asked on interview 🤪
