---
title: "The big re-renders myth"
date: 2025-02-25
tags: [react]
---

Have you ever heard that writing code like this:

```jsx
    <Component levels={[1, 2, 3]} />
```
is bad practice because the levels array is recreated in JSX every time,
causing unnecessary re-renders of `Component`?
And that you should use useMemo (like `const levels = useMemo(() => [1, 2, 3], [])`)
or declare it outside the component?

**I’ve heard this advice many times.
And I followed it.**

Even when I encountered cases where passing a ref object as a prop and then updating
the ref didn't trigger a re-render, I didn't question it. I just hadn't connected the dots —
if a component always re-renders when its props change, then it should work the same
way with ref, right?

Now, while reading Advanced React by Nadia Makarevich, I came across one of
the most common misconceptions in React:
> The big re-renders myth: Component re-renders when its props change.

**React updates when a state update is triggered**. In that case, it will re-render
all nested components, regardless of whether their props have changed.

> In the context of re-renders, whether props have changed or not on a component matters
only in one case: if the said component is wrapped in the React.memo higher-order component.

Check this out with code: https://codesandbox.io/p/sandbox/props-rerender-dcq97c.

That's it! We need to shift our thinking paradigm — from focusing  on
prop changes to analyzing state updates.

> [!NOTE] Summary
> React updates when a state update is triggered.
> Props changes matter in case when component is wrapped in the React.memo.
>
> Watch you state 😎

P.S. For constant arrays/objects, I personally prefer defining them in a separate
`constants.ts` file. But that’s a matter of taste, not re-renders.
