---
title: "When a backend developer tells you to parse a JWT token for user information..."
date: 2025-05-15
tags: [JWT, cookie]
---

> [!WARNING] UPD from 16th may and spoiler
> In most cases, you can't parse a JWT token on the client because it's stored in an HttpOnly cookie. An HttpOnly cookie is a cookie that cannot be accessed via client-side JavaScript for security reasons.
>
> So for now, we’re doing what I initially suggested: the backend developer is implementing an endpoint to obtain user information.

I hadn't parsed a JWT token on the client before, but this week our backender said that he
didn't have time to create a new endpoint like /user, and that I should extract user information
from the JWT token in a cookie.

> [!NOTE] What is JWT?
> JWT stands for JSON Web Tokens. It is open standard defining a compact and self-contained
> way for securely transmitting information between parties as a JSON object. You can read more
> on  [jwt.io](https://jwt.io/introduction) (check the debugger, it is handy for parsing
> JWTs and checking its content).

My first thought was: is this okay? On all projects that I've seen backend gave me endpoint like
/user, /me, /current — and these endpoints were created for a reason, weren't they?

Yes, there are reasons:
- you cannot store sensitive, confidential information in JWT payload
- you should be mindful of the size of the JWT (it is transmitted with cookies in every request)

For example, it is not a good idea to store in JWT permissions for user and rely on it in your
UI. Because someone can modify the token, and your application could be at risk.

However, this means you can use a JWT to store some basic user information. In my current
situation, I only need name, email and photo of the authorized user, so I started parsing JWT for
this data and backend developer took another task.

## What do you need for parsing JWT on client?
JWTs are Base64 encoded and contain of three parts: header, payload, and signature. You can
write your own decoding function or use one of the ready-made solutions. I checked what is there on
the internet for handling JWT tokens on the client-side:
- [jsonwebtoken](https://github.com/auth0/node-jsonwebtoken) — very popular library for Node.js.
It is used for generating and verifying JWTs on the server-side, can be used on the client side.
It’s a good library, but overkill for my case.
- [jose](https://github.com/panva/jose) — another library for implementing JWT, it provides
functionality for signing and verifying tokens and set of utility functions. Again: good, but
overkill for my case.
- [jwt-decode](https://github.com/auth0/jwt-decode) — lightweight library only for decoding
tokens. Single-purpose, easy to use, zero dependencies — that’s the winner for today.
