---
title: "First impressions of using CursorAI"
date: 2025-04-10
tags: [Cursor, AI, diagram]
---

I've been using Cursor for 3 weeks, and I'm really impressed. Of course, it is not ideal and it
doesn't replace a human developer (for now), but it can help in a lot of ways.

> **TLDR**
> - Use AI for writing tests, but add clear instructions
> - Generating types from response is very handy
> - Get explanatory diagrams in a snap


### Writing tests
Not all developers love to write unit and integration tests. I personally lose my inspiration
when I need to create a lot of mocks, do some routine tasks for preparing the test environment and
try to make everything work with components or other libraries.

And that's the place where AI shines! Of course not without a helping hand, but...

**How I improved results of generation**
- created mdx files with instructions for writing tests with examples (separate files
for unit and integration tests)
- described the flow: AI ought to write tests, after that run them and check results. If there are
failed tests, AI fixes them
- run command `write tests for ...` and add relevant instructions to the context

Of course, there is still a lot of work with reviewing, but with mocks and setting up
environments it helps a lot.

## Generating types

When you get a new endpoint and add it to your application, you need to describe types. In all our
projects we use TypeScript, and before starting to use AI I created types manually (there is
Swagger only on some of the projects). But now... I just need to give the API response to AI and
describe what it is and some constraints — and after a few minutes I have generated types. There
is room for improvement, but it speeds me up a lot.

## Diagrams
I love diagrams, and I believe that it is easier to understand processes and technical details
from diagrams and schemes, not from plain text. And I explored a whole new world for me with
this prompt: `@project explain how is ___ implemented` and `draw a scheme of how ____ works`.
I can read and have a mermaid diagram (I just copy and paste in an online mermaid editor) in front of
my eyes — it has simplified a lot.


> [!TIP] Summary
> For now AI helps a lot, but it is very much like a junior developer. If you give it very clear and
> accurate instructions — it will do the work. But sometimes it doesn't know something and wants to
> do less.
>
> We need to develop our review mindset and our expertise to control AI and create
> effective and maintainable solutions with a helping hand from technologies.
