---
title: "When you need re-render, but it doesn't happen..."
date: 2025-03-14
tags: [react, react-router]
---

> [!NOTE] TL;DR
> If component should re-render on url changes — use useLocation or useParams.
> useHistory will not help you, because history object is stable reference,
> so all pushes and changes are not tracked by React.

I already have had this issue and was surprised by this behaviour, but I forgot this —
and wasted 2 hours on debugging. I suspected component's library, checked contexts, and tried
to find problems in composition.

So, what happened? In our `App.tsx`:
```jsx
<Router history={history}>
    <UuiContext.Provider value={services}>
        <Header />
        <Routes />
        <Footer />
    </UuiContext.Provider>
</Router>
```

In `Header.tsx` — navigation:
```jsx
// it's component from library, responsible for highlighting active menu item
// use uuiContext from UuiContext.Provider and check is link active using history
<MainMenu>
    <MainMenuButton caption='Home' link={{pathname: '/' } />
    <MainMenuButton caption='Dashboard' link={{pathname: '/dashboard' } />
</MainMenu>
```
And it works... almost. When you click on buttons in MainMenu url is updated, content is re-rendered.
But there is no highlighting for active menu item in MainMenu.

Started with `MainMenu.tsx`: add breakpoint in function defining is link active.
But on button clicks and changing url this function is not called. And component is not re-rendered.

Add console.log('render') in `Header.tsx`. So, it is also not re-rendered.
Despite updating the history object, and seeing those updates reflected in uuiContext.uuiRouter.history,
nothing was triggering a re-render.
Why don't children of UuiContext.Provider update?

At this point, I went down a rabbit hole: tried to debug in contexts, because I thought that I have several
instances and something weird happens. Found nothing, of course.

But after all this debugging, idea occurred to me: content is re-rendered because of changing
actual Route, what if I put `Header` in corresponded pages?
It worked, but in this case `Header` unmounted and mounted each time route changes. It's not good
user experience.

And then finally I asked right thing: how React and React Router define, what should be re-rendered?
Results of answering on this question:
- we update history
- history object is stable reference, so you cannot track changes with useEffect and history.location
dependency
- but useLocation and useParams watch changes location, and when we use them — our component
re-renders after changes

So I just added to `Header.tsx`:
```jsx
useLocation();

//...same code
```

> [!NOTE]
> From documentation of React Router:
> «Returns the current Location. This can be useful if you'd like to perform some side effect whenever it changes»

The most annoying thing about that I already have solved problem like this,
but remembered about it only when I found solution again. Writing it down this time so I'll remember 🤪
